fix: add back missing MeshTrace doc (#1072)
kumahq/kuma-website: app/docs/dev/policies/meshtrace.md

---

> title: MeshTrace (beta)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: MeshTrace 
beta: true
```
I think now that we have Jekyll, you might be able to use this frontmatter to get a "beta" badge to display on the page: https://docs.konghq.com/contributing/markdown-rules/#markdown-front-matter

Reviewer 2: This won't work unless the template is configured to render a beta badge (which it's not currently)

Author: https://github.com/kumahq/kuma-website/issues

| MeshGatewayRoute  | ✅        | ❌  | ❌   |
| MeshHTTPRoute     | ❌        | ❌  | ❌   |

> If you don't understand this table you should read [matching docs](../matching#policy-matching).

Reviewer 3: Isn't it in the same directory?

Author: That's how these docs are like now. meshtrace is a path in the URL

## Configuration

### Sampling

{% tip %}

> Most of the time setting only `overall` is sufficient; `random` and `client` are for advanced use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the time setting only `overall` is sufficient. `random` and `client` are for advanced use cases.
```
Could we specify what those use cases are? Or are those covered in the links below?

Author: Yes they are covered in the Envoy links.

{% endtip %}

You can configure sampling settings equivalent to Envoy's:

- [overall](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.22.5/api-v3/extensions/filters/network/http_connection_manager/v3/http_connection_manager.proto.html?highlight=overall_sampling#extensions-filters-network-http-connection-manager-v3-httpconnectionmanager-tracing)
- [random](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.22.5/api-v3/extensions/filters/network/http_connection_manager/v3/http_connection_manager.proto.html?highlight=random_sampling#extensions-filters-network-http-connection-manager-v3-httpconnectionmanager-tracing)
- [client](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.22.5/api-v3/extensions/filters/network/http_connection_manager/v3/http_connection_manager.proto.html?highlight=client_sampling#extensions-filters-network-http-connection-manager-v3-httpconnectionmanager-tracing)

The value is always a percentage and is between 0 and 100.

Example:

```yaml
sampling:
  overall:
    value: 80
  random:
    value: 60
  client:
    value: 40
```

### Tags

> You can add tags to trace metadata by directly supplying the value ("literal") or by taking it from a header ("header").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add tags to trace metadata by directly supplying the value (`literal`) or by taking it from a header (`header`).
```

Example:

```yaml
tags:
  - name: team
    literal: core
  - name: env
    header:
      name: x-env
      default: prod
  - name: version
    header:
      name: x-version
```

> For `header` - if a value is missing then `default` will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a value is missing for `header`, `default` is used.
```

> If `default` is not provided then the tag won't be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `default` isn't provided, then the tag won't be added.
```

        value: 40
```

Apply the configuration with `kumactl apply -f [..]` or with the [HTTP API](../../reference/http-api).

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Targeting parts of the infrastructure

> While most commonly we want all the traces to be sent to the same tracing backend,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While usually you want all the traces to be sent to the same tracing backend,
```

> we can target parts of a `Mesh` by using finer-grained `targetRef` and a designated backend to trace different paths of our service traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can target parts of a `Mesh` by using a finer-grained `targetRef` and a designated backend to trace different paths of our service traffic.
```

> This is especially useful when we want traces to never leave a world region, or a cloud, for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is especially useful when you want traces to never leave a world region, or a cloud, for example.
```

> In this example we have two zones `east` and `west`, each of these with their own zipkin collector: `east.zipkincollector:9411/api/v2/spans` and `west.zipkincollector:9411/api/v2/spans`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we have two zones `east` and `west`, each of these with their own Zipkin collector: `east.zipkincollector:9411/api/v2/spans` and `west.zipkincollector:9411/api/v2/spans`.
```

We want dataplane proxies in each zone to only send traces to their local collector.

> To do this we use a `TargetRef` kind value of `MeshSubset` to filter which dataplane proxy a policy applies to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, we use a `TargetRef` kind value of `MeshSubset` to filter which dataplane proxy a policy applies to.
```
